---
layout: page
title: "Dynamic Choreographies: Theory and Implementation"
permalink: /publications/lmcs2017/
---

Mila Dalla Preda, Saverio Giallorenzo, Maurizio Gabbrielli, Ivan Lanese, and Jacopo Mauro

**Abstract**

Programming distributed applications free from communication deadlocks and race conditions is complex. Preserving these properties when applications are updated at runtime is even harder. We present a choreographic approach for programming updatable, distributed applications. We define a choreography language, called Dynamic Interaction-Oriented Choreography (DIOC), that allows the programmer to specify, from a global viewpoint, which parts of the application can be updated. At runtime, these parts may be replaced by new DIOC fragments from outside the application. DIOC programs are compiled, generating code for each participant in a process-level language called Dynamic Process-Oriented Choreographies (DPOC). We prove that DPOC distributed applications generated from DIOC specifications are deadlock free and race free and that these properties hold also after any runtime update. We instantiate the theoretical model above into a programming framework called Adaptable Interaction-Oriented Choreographies in Jolie (AIOCJ) that comprises an integrated development environment, a compiler from an extension of DIOCs to distributed Jolie programs, and a runtime environment to support their execution.

- Link to the [Paper](lmcs2017.pdf), accepted at Logical Methods in Computer Science.

